# Common Interview Questions


## What makes an answer good?
- Confident: Not arrogant. Show that you are prepared and that you know what you are talking about. Close in a confident way.
- Do not rush your way through.
-  Be specific and use examples, stories, anecdotes, etc.
-  Be concise!
-  Be honest!

### 1. Tell me about yourself / walk me through your resume.
   -    Make a narrative out of your resume. Highlight a couple top accomplishments and then focus on why you are a good fit for their company.
   
- I am currently a junior at the University of Texas at Arlington, majoring in Computer Science with a focus on Cyber Security, Web Development and Software Development. With my father and brother being engineers, my childhood and teens was spent around professionals, listening to their anecdotes learing from the field. With my early interest in computers, Computer Science became the obvious choice for me to build my career in. I have been working part-time at my university's office for Information Technology for the past 2 and a helf years where we provide technical support to the university's staff and faculty members. This has served as a stepping stone for my career in IT and I have learned a lot about customer interaction, troubleshootng, technical documentation, problem solving etc. and I have also learned a lot from the senior members in the team. I also have some experience in freelance writing and photography that has come in handy several times. I am also a staff member with the E-Sports club at the university and I also play for the university's CS:GO team as well, which has helped me gain an insight into the gaming industry as well. My goal is to be working on projects and products in a professional setting and I know that in order to get there I need to gain more experience and advance my skillset. I know I could learn a great deal from you and your staff which is why I am really excited in talking to you today and I am really interested in becoming an intern for GameStop.

### 2. What do you consider to be your key strengths?
- With my experience in the freelance market adn the customer service market and the knowledge I have gained from personal and school projects as well as coursework, I would consider customer interaction, app testing, documentation and guide prepration, web and app design to be at the top among my key strenghts. With my recent interest in UX design, I am hoping to add interactive protyping to the list as well. Furthermore, I have been told by my manager and colleagues that I tend to pick up new instructions quickly. I have worked with and trained a few student works as well which has helped me become a good team player. I am also very particular about details, design and deadlines and make keen observations quickly which is why I would consider myself to be a good problem solver as well.

### 3. What is a weakness of yours?
- I tend to have a hard time asking for help. I personally learn by doing and sometimes that means I bite off more ethan I can chew in the process. For example, when workng on a recent group project for a database management class, I offered to build the entire front end for our app by myself. Even though I have built several small webapps, I have never built an entire app and I realised it was much more work than I had initially thought, but I was determined to figure it out on my own which is why I started learing about interactive prototyping. But sinc ethen, I have realised by working on other projects, be it for class or work, that I could learn more by partnering up with some of the other people in my team and brainstorming solutions together. By brainstorming ideas and putting our skills together, not only would we have completed this project faster, but I would have gained some new perspective but I owuld have been a lot less stressed by asking for some help upfront. 

### 4. What do you like to do in your spare time?
- In my spare time, I usually tend to read a book, listen to a podcast or solve some algorithm based problems on websites like LeetCode. Since summer of 2020, I have also been working on my prsoanal website, so I like to work on that as well.

### 5. How do you stay organized?
- Being a junior in college alongside having a part time job and pursuing some freelance opportunities, I have come to use several tools to stay organized. All my classes, project deadlines and meetings stay on google calander which gives me the ability to access them from any device. I also use an app called minimalist where I keep track of my long term and short term goals which helps me stay motivated.

### 6. How do you react to pressure or stressful situations?
- Recently, we completed a university wide project of migrating all devices from windows 7 to windows 10 which I was co-managing. This being a poject, had the eyes of many high profile people on it, which made the entire situation quite stressful. The pressure started building when the deadline was only 3 weeks away and we had a lot of faculty members not replying to our emails as they were unwillng to switch to a new OS which they would have to relearn entirely. We started writing knowledge base articles to help the users with the new OS, as well as we set up longer appointments so that they could as us any questions they had. We were able to convince our supervisors to extend the project deadline as well. With all that and a few more weeks of hard work, we were able to successfully complete the project 1 ekk earlier than the new deadline.

### 7. How would you describe your working/learning style?
- Traditionally I have been an independent learner. I like to learn new things by reading about it or watching a video on it to get my basics down and then I start playing around with the tool and figuring out hat it can do. This has been really helpful in situations where in a class project, we were expected to learn the tool on our own. Now that I have an active role in working with a team daily, I have also come to experince learning as a team. With several projects at work or school, I have had the chance to work alongside a team of wonderful people and learn alongside them. Having experience with two different styles, I am now able to successfully utilize my learning from both and no have a hybrid learning and work style.

### 8. Where do you hope to be in 5 years? (Career Goals)    
- In the next 5 years, I hope to be working in a professional setting and designing products and tools that benifit the industry. I would like to focus on cyber security and software development. My upcoming plans for summer are to begin working towards my CompTIA Security+ and CompTIA Newwork+ certifications. Gaming has been an integral part of my high school and college life and by joining a major comapny llike GameStop I would like to be able to make a difference in that industry nd provide back to it.

### 9. Give me an example of an accomplishment you are most proud of, and why?
- My most proud accomplishment is co-managing a university wide project. With windows 7 coming to an end of life in January of this year, the university wanted to upgrade all the devices on campus to windows 10. With UTA being a big university, there were many devices and not a lot of time and manpower. We had to develop a strategy that would enable us to perform operatuins like data backup, bios and driver update, re-imaging, profile setip, etc. in an effective manner. We brainstormed scheduling ideas, upgrade paths, etc. for a single department at the university, which was the department of student affairs, and tested out our plans. We made the adjustments needed and scaled up the strategy to include more and more departments each week and with a lot of hard work and a little bit of luck, we were able to pull off this massive upgrade successfully with minimal disruptions and only one deadline change. The reason I am so proud of this accomplishment is the fact that I was trusted to co-manage such a massive project, even though I was a part time student worker. The immense confidence and learning experiences that this project has provided me with are invaluable to me.

### 10. What is a challenege you have encountered / criticism you have received and how did you overcome it?
- Having learned English as a 3rd language, a challenge that I have encounterd is precise communication in english. Often times I think of what I would say in my native language and then translate this to english, which has always worked for me, but working in an IT job and communicating with several people everyday has pointed out that it may not always work. Sometimes, the translation comes off as a bit bland and there was even an occassion where a client thought I was being rude. I have put quite some effort towards this. Last year, I took a class in professional communication at the university which has helped me a lot. I have started reading local newspapers and articles which has helped me understand some references, slang etc. I often times get in debates on topics in the news which has helped me a lot. I have also talked to my manager about this and received some very helpful feedback.

### 11. What relevant experience do you have / why should we hire you?
- Through my job and coursework and several projects, I have leraned a lot of things that I think make me an excellent candidate for your company. I have maintained KB artiles, techinical documentations, guides, etc. I have done software testing in both alpha and beta phases. I have experience with industry standard softwares as well as major different operating systems. While working with a group of students, I learned how to use git products to collaboate with them effectively. I have also dabbled into server hostings with apache on local machines or using AWS to host it on the cloud. With my recent drive to solve algorithm based questions, I have started to code the same question in multiple languages to utilize the tools that each of them provide. And with my experience workin in IT, I also have a decent grip on customer interactions and how to communicate internally to other departments, etc. With all my previous experience and all the knowledge that I will gain while working with you and your staff, I believe I should make an excellent candidate for this position.

### 12. Tell me about a time you showed initiative or leadership.
- I have been fortunate enough to have experiene training new employees. Having started at the same position at them, I have been though the default training process which I found a bit lacking at the time. So, when I was provided with the opportunity to train people myself, I took it upon me to see that they do not face the same problems that I faced. I, along with my colleague built out an entirely new trainig regime from scratch. We also made vidoes about relevant topics. While training people, we now gave each of them their own device to follow along and ask any questiosn that they have. I made a seperate teams channel where anyone can ask questions regarding any issue that comes up. I have received positive feedbacks from many of the new workers and have been congratulated by supervisors regarding this as well.